# README
A Treball de Recerca (TR, Research Project) is a project assignment compulsory for all Batxillerat (two courses before university, ages 15-16 or 16-17) students. It is a sort of short thesis developed within about a year whose subject is chosen by each student. In my case, since I am a long-time chessplayer and have always been interested in computers, I decided my project would be all about developing a chess engine (i.e., a computer program that can play chess).

As a disclaimer, at the time I had never written a single line of code, and was of course quite young. Looking back a few years after, many flagrant code smells are aparent, though I am pleasantly surprised that I managed to make a (decently-well) working chess engine. A big part of my success is due to the help of my tutors and, of course, the Internet.

The project report (`Paper.pdf`) is written in Catalan, as it is my mother-tongue as well as the language used in my studies. I will not bother to translate it, since the main text is about 50 pages long, though I might revisit it in the future. The slides used in the project presentation are also provided (`Slides.pptx`), aswell as the <em>Visual Studio 2019</em> project under the folder `i1` (such is the name of my engine!). Lastly, an <em>excel</em> document with <em>Visual Basic</em> macros I used to test static evaluation of positions is to be found in `Evaluation.xlsm` - with active macros the chessboard is actually functional (though clearly not perfect).